Hey, I'm Colin from
Blackjack Apprenticeship,
and in this video I'm going
to teach you everything
you need to know about how
to play the game of blackjack
as well as how it can be beat.
(upbeat music)
Hey, I'm Colin and I'm here
with my good friend David
a.k.a. Loudon Ofton.
We're gonna teach you how to
play the game of blackjack.
We have been professional
blackjack players
for roughly 15 years.
We have played individually,
we've played as part of teams
responsible for beating
casinos for roughly $4 million,
and we now teach others
how to beat blackjack
through Blackjack Apprenticeship.
In this video, we're gonna
show you how to play blackjack
and eventually how it can be beat.
Before we can talk about how
to play the game of blackjack,
we first need to talk about what the goal,
or the objective, of the game is,
which is to, in its simplest
form, beat the dealer.
Unlike poker, where you're
playing against other players,
in blackjack it's all about
your game against the dealer.
How do you beat the dealer?
Basically by getting closer
to 21 than the dealer
without going over 21.
That's why they call the game 21.
How do you lose?
There's a couple ways you can lose.
If the dealer gets closer to
21 than you, then you lose.
Or if you go over 21, you lose right away.
What we have right here is a
fourth of one deck of cards.
This is two through ace, and in blackjack,
the two through 10 are simply
gonna be their point value,
so a two is gonna be worth two points,
and a 10 is gonna be worth 10 points.
And then a Jack, Queen and King
are also going to be worth 10 points.
So 10, Jack, Queen, and
King are all 10 value cards
and then an ace is unique in
that it can be a one or an 11,
whichever is going to be
the best for the hand.
Ace and a two is gonna be a three or a 13,
whichever is better for the hand.
Let's talk about how the game is dealt.
Both the player and the
dealer get two cards,
but the dealer only shows one card
while the other card is kept face down.
At this point, the
player always goes first,
and they have an option to
take more cards, or to stay.
They actually have a few other decisions
we'll get to in a minute,
but they always go first
and decide if they want
more cards or to stay,
with the goal of getting closer to 21
than the dealer without going over.
The player has an 18 is going to stay,
and the dealer has a 16,
and since he has to hit until he has a 17,
he has no choice but to hit.
Now he has a 17 and even though the dealer
has a worse hand than the player,
the dealer has to stay at 17,
so the player is going to win.
After the round is played,
there are three outcomes for payouts.
If the player wins,
they get paid an equal
amount to what they just bet.
If they lose, they lose their entire bet.
If they push,
which is to get the same
point value as the dealer,
then they don't win or lose,
and the next round begins.
But wait, there's another
way that you can win
at blackjack automatically,
and that's if you're dealt a blackjack,
or what we call a natural,
so it looks like this.
If you're dealt an ace and a 10 value card
as your first two cards,
we call that a blackjack.
As long as a dealer doesn't
also have a blackjack,
you win automatically.
If you're dealt a blackjack
it gets paid right away,
and like it says on this felt,
blackjacks pay three to two.
David is betting 400 here,
it's going to get paid 600,
which is three to two or 150 percent.
Beware, because there's some
greedy casinos out there
that have started to offer
an inferior form of blackjack
where it doesn't pay three
to two, it pays six to five,
or even paying even money,
which would be paying like a normal hand,
and you don't want to
play those games ever.
Because a big part of you not
having a large disadvantage
from the casino or if you learn to become
a card counter like us, and
you want to beat the game,
you're gonna need a three
to two blackjack game
to even have a chance to beat them.
Let's deal some example rounds
and show you how this works.
(cards swishing)
In this example, the first
player is gonna stay.
So is the second player,
and then the third player is going to hit.
Now they would stay.
In this situation, the dealer has an 18,
the first player has a
17, so he's gonna lose.
The second player has a 19
which beats the dealer's 18,
so he's going to win.
The third player has an 18,
which is the same as the dealer's hand,
so that would be a push,
they don't win or lose.
In the second example,
here this first player
has a 12 against a seven.
If they were to hit, they have 22.
They went over 21, he's
gonna lose right away
regardless of what the
dealer ends up getting.
He loses.
The 19, he's gonna stay.
The dealer has a 13, so
the dealer has to hit.
The dealer also went over 21.
This 19 is gonna win, but
again, this is really important,
because the player always
plays first, they lose,
if both the player and the
dealer bust, the player loses.
That's a big part of how the casino
gets the advantage at blackjack.
Third example, the player is
dealt, boom, the blackjack,
and with the blackjack,
as long as the dealer
doesn't have a blackjack,
the player wins right away.
Not only do they win right way,
but they get paid just like this says,
blackjacks pay three to two,
the player is going to get
paid three chips to his two,
or 150%, and that doesn't
matter if you're betting
five dollars or $5000, you
get paid 150% of your bet
when you get a blackjack.
That's really important
because that's part of how
the player can try to regain the advantage
against the casino.
The player needs that
extra 50% on blackjacks
to even have a fighting
chance against the casino.
Let's talk about playing decisions.
There are four main playing decisions
that you as a player can
make at the blackjack table.
There's hitting, standing,
splitting, and doubling down.
We're gonna break down
each one of those for you.
But just so you know
there's actually a chart,
and we'll put a link to it
in the description below,
that will tell you the
proper playing decision
for every hand of blackjack.
It's called basic strategy
and it was created by mathematicians,
and it is the best way to play
every possible hand in the game.
David, how long would you say it takes
to memorize basic strategy?
- A couple of hours a
day for a couple weeks.
- Yeah.
Couple hours a day for a couple of weeks
to know how to play perfect blackjack.
That's not going to give you
the advantage over the casino,
you need card counting for that, but,
with proper basic strategy,
you're playing every hand properly,
and it's going to cut the casino's edge
to a very small margin,
roughly half of 1%.
First let's talk about hitting.
Why would a player hit?
- [David] To get a better hand.
- Yeah, yeah, to take another card.
So let's show you what that looks like.
In this situation we have
an eight against a seven,
so the player's gonna wanna hit.
You're going to do that
by tapping or scraping
or some form of tapping the table,
and then the dealer will
give you another card.
Then your next option would be standing,
and that's if you don't want another card.
Now you have an 18 against
the dealer's seven,
you're gonna want to stand,
so you're gonna just wave that hand off,
then your hand is over.
Our next playing decision
would be to stand,
when would you stand?
- When you have a good hand
or you don't want to bust.
- The third option would be doubling down,
and that's only available
on your first two cards
or sometimes after you split your hand.
We'll show you that in a minute.
When you double down,
you're going to place an equal
bet to your original bet.
You can bet up to your
original bet, a little pro-tip,
you would never double down
for anything less than the full amount
and you would always double down
when basic strategy says to double down.
Let me show you what that looks like.
With doubling down,
each of these hands are
actually technically
a hand you should double down,
so this first one's a nine.
what you're gonna do is
put an equal bet next to it
and place one finger out.
The dealer's gonna give
you one card sideways,
to signify that you can't hit
that hand, that hand is over.
Here's an 11, an 11 is
always going to double down
against a six.
Then again on this last hand,
it's a soft 18 so this is an eight or 18
and the correct decision
would be to double down.
At that point all three
of these hands are done
and you have to just hope
that the dealer's gonna bust.
Boom!
Then you get paid out on all those bets.
Another thing to be aware of,
as far as proper basic
strategy at blackjack,
doubling down situations
are all situations
where you have an advantageous hand.
While you might feel scared
to put another bet out there
to match your original bet,
it is the proper way to play it,
and if you don't double down
when you're supposed to,
you're really just costing
yourself money over the long run.
Splitting as an option
when you have two cards
that are of equal value to each other.
If you have a pair of
twos or a pair of sevens
or even a pair of tens,
you have the option to split those cards.
Here we have a pair of
eights and to split those
you're gonna put a second equal bet out
and split your fingers
like saying two hands.
Then you're gonna get dealt.
Here you have another eight,
so you can actually split that again.
So you're gonna do the exact same thing.
Then you're gonna get dealt
into three separate hands.
Here you're gonna stand on each of these.
Then over here we have a pair of aces,
which is always going to split.
Again, you put two fingers
out to say two hands.
With a pair of aces, you only
get dealt one card to those.
The dealer's gonna put them sideways
to signify that you can't
hit, and those hands are over.
The dealer's gonna play out their hand.
Again, if you want to know how
to play proper basic strategy
there's a link below in the
description so you can learn
the proper way to play
every hand of blackjack.
- Which doesn't guarantee
you're gonna win,
it just gives you the best chance.
- There's one other option for the player
when the dealer has an ace up,
and that's to buy insurance.
How that works is that if
you want to insure your hand
against the dealer's blackjack,
they're gonna let you,
they're gonna do this and say insurance,
and let you buy insurance.
To do that, you would put half of your bet
into the insurance line right here.
At that point if the dealer
does have a blackjack,
you would lose your hand
because you have a 14
and they have a blackjack
but then insurance
is going to pay two to one
so that would mean basically
you're gonna break even.
If you're just following basic strategy,
you should never buy insurance,
but that's how that
playing decision works.
Unless you're a card counter
don't ever buy insurance.
David, do you agree?
- Well, basic strategy
says, it's not a smart play.
- When you're at the casino
there's gonna be other players or dealers
that are gonna say oh,
will you shouldn't insure
if you have a good hand,
or don't insure a bad hand,
that's all just casino mumbo-jumbo.
It's not based on math or logic.
Unless you're learning how to
count cards like David and I,
just don't ever buy insurance.
There's one other playing decision
that we didn't talk about yet,
which is called surrendering.
It's only offered at maybe 10% of casinos,
but if the casino does offer it,
it actually is valuable
to the player if you know
how to play it properly.
If you're at a casino
that offers surrender,
if it's a hand that you want to surrender,
what you're gonna do is slide
your finger across the table,
make a line, and you'll
probably wanna say, surrender,
just so the casino knows
that that's clearly what you want to do,
and how it works is, you
forfeit your hand right away
and only lose half your bet.
You would lose five of the
10 dollars right there,
before the hand is ever played out.
The hand is over.
Mathematically if it's
a hand where the casino
has a better than 50% advantage over you,
you would just surrender half your bet
and move on to the next round.
At this point you might be
thinking, this sounds great,
all I have to do is follow basic strategy
and beat the dealer.
Is it that simple David?
- You do have to use
your brain a little bit.
- What if I just am a
lucky blackjack player.
- That's great
but that's not going to
guarantee profits over time.
- That's right.
Casinos are no dummies,
they've designed the game
in a way where they have the
advantage over the player.
There are really two reasons for that.
The first reason is that very few players
actually follow basic strategy.
How often do you find a
perfect basic strategy player
at the blackjack tables?
- Less than 5% of the time.
- Yeah.
It's really rare.
Even though basic strategy
won't give you a winning game,
it cuts the casino's advantage
to about half a percent.
Whereas the average gambler
at a blackjack table
is probably playing with
about a 2% disadvantage
which is really about the
same or not much better
than the slot machines.
You want to just play slot machines?
- [David] No.
- The second reason why people
don't have the advantage
is because how the game is designed.
I showed you before,
if both the player and the
dealer bust, who loses?
- If the player busts before
the dealer, the player loses.
- That's right.
Since a player always goes
first, even if they both bust,
the player loses.
Even though blackjacks help the player,
double downs help the player,
those aren't enough to gain
the advantage over the casino.
You need something more,
which is card counting.
In the short run,
anyone can get lucky on
a given day or night.
But over time the odds
are going to work out
and even if you're playing
perfect basic strategy,
the casino's gonna end up with your money
over the long haul.
You can gain the advantage
but it takes more.
What's the first step
to getting the advantage over the casino?
- Basic strategy, getting that perfect.
- Perfect basic strategy
and the second step is?
- Counting cards.
- That's right.
That's illegal, right?
- No, it's using your brain.
- [Colin] I thought using your
brain was illegal in casinos.
- No, it's legal to use your brain,
the casinos have invited
you to play a game,
use your brain, beat it.
- This is what David and
I have done for 15 years.
We have played as
professional card counters.
We between the two of us
have won over $1.5 million.
We've been a part of teams.
One of the more notorious ones
was called the church team.
Which beat casinos for
$3.2 million legally
through card counting.
What card counting does
is tells you how to bet
and when to change your playing decisions
in a way that gives you
the advantage over casinos.
I'm going to be honest with you though,
casinos don't like people
that can beat them,
so they have a right to refuse
service to whoever they want.
If you want to learn how to beat casinos,
that's what we're all about.
You can learn more by subscribing below,
you can watch our videos on card counting,
or you can check out
blackjackapprenticeship.com.